## Final Reflection
### How data science serves to better understand human behavior

Data science is currently in the process of advancing human lives across the globe. It will have the power to completely evolve our world as we know it as it continues to progress and redefine the boundaries of which technology can be used to enhance lives. The predictive power that it holds to forecast the future and analyze human behavior from data is incredible and can be seen in all aspects of life today.

Significant developments have been made in recent years in the data science industry. Some examples include the progress in Natural Language Processing that enables humans and computers to share a common language and interact with one another. It will shape consumer experiences in the future as it is used to deal with customers and provide answers to questions through chatbots and automated IT desk helpers. Another example of data science development is the huge explosion of the popularity of the cloud. It is what directly enables the growth of this industry as astronomical amounts of data are now capable of being stored. More data means more opportunities to analyze and make predictions about the future. It also means that the models used to predict various things will become more accurate as it is fed more data to pull patterns from and learn from. 

Although data science has amazing benefits, there are also many valid concerns and obstacle it has to face. One of the main problems is privacy. People don't want AI spying on them at all times and collecting their personal information to be used in an algorithm. It is a justifiable reason for people to be wary of companies or entities that plan to use collected data in a harmful way and if the wrong hands get valuable data, disastrous events can occur. And since it is such a new concept, there is no organization to govern and establish rules in this field yet. So in order to move forward and be able to fully take advantage of data science without having major drawbacks, someone has to step up and create boundaries for how data can be collected and used, especially if consent is not given by consumers. Another issue comes up in law. Can AI and robots be blamed for incidents where there was no malintent by any human party? In a car accident with a self driving car, whose fault is it if the car somehow propagates it? The driver? The car company? Regulations must be established to have structure within this new field to prepare for these types of situations. 

Problems that arise within the more technical side of data science is model bias. If the training set of data is biased in any way, the algorithm will become discriminatory and the results wll be unfair and skewed. Even though there are many ways to mitigate these biases, it would be better if the model didn't exhibit any biases in the first place. The first step in doing so is making sure the actual data scientists and programmers behind the AI are educated and diverse themselves so no biases creep into their work.

There are many ways in which data science can be used to better the world and our future. One particular improvement that is very critical is in the environment. Data science is being used to monitor our planet's health and the effect humans have on the climate. This data is analyzed and used to create policies and find solutions to reduce our impact on the environment. For example, satellite imaging and crowdsourcing can provide real-time insight on the health of our forests and alleviate deforestation. Urban planning is another field that uses data science to create the most efficient spaces and reduce environmental costs. Another way that data science is used and will continue to be used to improve the human condition is within healthcare. Especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, data science has redefined the way diseases can be tracked and help reduce spread within populations. This will carry over past the pandemic and be able to aid developing countries. As they start to collect more data on these countries, big organizations are supporting programs to analyze and use this data to its potential. If successful, these countries can be empowered and have improved quality of life through containing outbreaks, reducing impacts of natural disaters, etc. 

Overall, data science is in the process of changing the world for the better and is broadening the scope of which we can advance our understanding of human behaviors across various fields of study and industries. 

